README.md, before:

# Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [User support](#user-support)
- [Known bugs/issues](#known-bugsissues)
- [Supported GitLab versions](#supported-gitlab-versions)
- [Configuring access to GitLab](#configuring-access-to-gitlab)
    - [Jenkins Job Configuration](#jenkins-job-configuration)
    - [Gitlab Configuration (>= 8.1)](#gitlab-configuration)
- [Branch filtering](#branch-filtering)
- [Build Tags](#build-tags)
- [Parameterized builds](#parameterized-builds)
- [Contributing to the Plugin](#contributing-to-the-plugin)
- [Testing With Docker](#testing-with-docker)
- [Release Workflow](#release-workflow)

# Introduction

This plugin allows GitLab to trigger builds in Jenkins after code is pushed and/or after a merge request is created and/or after an existing merge request was merged/closed, and report build status back to GitLab.

# User support

If you have a problem or question about using the plugin, please make sure you are using the latest version. Then create an issue in the GitHub project if necessary. New issues should include the following:
* GitLab plugin version (e.g. 1.2.0)
* GitLab version (e.g. 8.1.1)
* Jenkins version (e.g. 1.651.1)
* Relevant log output from the plugin (see below for instructions on capturing this)

Version 1.2.0 of the plugin introduced improved logging for debugging purposes. To enable it:

1. Go to Jenkins -> Manage Jenkins -> System Log
2. Add new log recorder
3. Enter 'Gitlab plugin' or whatever you want for the name
4. On the next page, enter 'com.dabsquared.gitlabjenkins' for Logger, set log level to FINEST, and save
5. Then click on your Gitlab plugin log, click 'Clear this log' if necessary, and then use GitLab to trigger some actions
6. Refresh the log page and you should see output

You can also try chatting with us in the #gitlab-plugin channel on the Freenode IRC network.

# Known bugs/issues

This is not an exhaustive list of issues, but rather a place for us to note significant bugs that may impact your use of the plugin in certain circumstances. For most things, please search the [Issues](https://github.com/jenkinsci/gitlab-plugin/issues) section and open a new one if you don't find anything.
* [#272](https://github.com/jenkinsci/gitlab-plugin/issues/272) - Plugin version 1.2.0+ does not work with GitLab Enterprise Edition < 8.8.3. Subsequent versions work fine.
* Jenkins versions 1.651.2 and 2.3 removed the ability of plugins to set arbitrary job parameters that are not specifically defined in each job's configuration. This was an important security update, but it has broken compatibility with some plugins, including ours. See [here](https://jenkins.io/blog/2016/05/11/security-update/) for more information and workarounds if you are finding parameters unset or empty that you expect to have values.
* [#473](https://github.com/jenkinsci/gitlab-plugin/issues/473) - When upgrading from plugin versions older than 1.2.0, you must upgrade to that version first, and then to the latest version. Otherwise, you will get a NullPointerException in com.cloudbees.plugins.credentials.matchers.IdMatcher after you upgrade. See the linked issue for specific instructions.
* [#608](https://github.com/jenkinsci/gitlab-plugin/issues/608) - GitLab 9.5.0 - 9.5.4 has a bug that causes the "Test Webhook" function to fail when it sends a test to Jenkins. This was fixed in 9.5.5.

# Supported GitLab versions

* GitLab versions 8.1.x and newer (both CE and EE editions) are supported via the GitLab [commit status API](https://docs.gitlab.com/ce/api/commits.html#commit-status) which supports with external CI services like Jenkins
* Versions older than 8.1.x may work but are no longer officially supported

# Configuring access to GitLab

Optionally, the plugin communicates with the GitLab server in order to fetch additional information. At this moment, this information is limited to fetching the source project of a Merge Request, in order to support merging from forked repositories.

To enable this functionality, a user should be set up on GitLab, with GitLab 'Developer' permissions, to access the repository. You will need to give this user access to each repo you want Jenkins to be able to clone. Log in to GitLab as that user, go to its profile, and copy its secret API key. On the Global Configuration page in Jenkins, supply the GitLab host URL, e.g. ``http://your.gitlab.server.`` Click the 'Add' button to add a credential, choose 'GitLab API token' as the kind of credential, and paste your GitLab user's API key into the 'API token' field. Testing the connection should succeed.

## Jenkins Job Configuration
### Git configuration for Freestyle jobs
1. In the *Source Code Management* section:
    1. Click *Git*
    2. Enter your *Repository URL*, such as ``git@your.gitlab.server:gitlab_group/gitlab_project.git``
       * In the *Advanced* settings, set *Name* to ``origin`` and *Refspec* to
        ``+refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/origin/* +refs/merge-requests/*/head:refs/remotes/origin/merge-requests/*``
    3. In order to merge from forked repositories:  <br/>**Note:** this requires [configuring communication to the GitLab server](#configuring-access-to-gitlab)
       * Click *Add Repository* to specify the merge request source repository.  Then specify:
         * *URL*: ``${gitlabSourceRepoURL}``
         * In the *Advanced* settings, set *Name* to ``${gitlabSourceRepoName}``.  Leave *Refspec* blank.
    4. In *Branch Specifier* enter:
       * For single-repository workflows: ``origin/${gitlabSourceBranch}``
       * For forked repository workflows: ``merge-requests/${gitlabMergeRequestIid}``
    5. In *Additional Behaviours*:
        * Click the *Add* drop-down button
        * Select *Merge before build* from the drop-down
        * Set *Name of repository* to ``origin``
        * Set *Branch to merge* as ``${gitlabTargetBranch}``

**Note:** Since version **1.2.0** the *gitlab-plugin* sets the gitlab hook values through *environment variables* instead of *build parameters*. To set default values, consult [EnvInject Plugin](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/EnvInject+Plugin).

### Git configuration for Pipeline/Workflow jobs
**Incompatibility note:** When upgrading to version 1.2.1 or later of the plugin, if you are using Pipeline jobs you will need to manually reconfigure your Pipeline scripts. In older versions the plugin set global Groovy variables that could be accessed as e.g. ${gitlabSourceBranch}. After version 1.2.1, these variables are only accessible in the env[] map. E.g. ${env.gitlabSourceBranch}.

* A Jenkins Pipeline bug will prevent the Git clone from working when you use a Pipeline script from SCM. It works if you use the Jenkins job config UI to edit the script. There is a workaround mentioned here: https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/browse/JENKINS-33719

* Use the Snippet generator, General SCM step, to generate sample Groovy code for the git checkout/merge etc.
* Example that performs merge before build:
```
checkout changelog: true, poll: true, scm: [
    $class: 'GitSCM',
    branches: [[name: "origin/${env.gitlabSourceBranch}"]],
    doGenerateSubmoduleConfigurations: false,
    extensions: [[$class: 'PreBuildMerge', options: [fastForwardMode: 'FF', mergeRemote: 'origin', mergeStrategy: 'default', mergeTarget: "${env.gitlabTargetBranch}"]]],
    submoduleCfg: [],
    userRemoteConfigs: [[name: 'origin', url: 'git@gitlab.example.com:foo/testrepo.git']]
    ]
```

### Git configuration for Multibranch Pipeline/Workflow jobs
**Note:** none of the GitLab environment variables are available for multibranch pipeline jobs as there is no way to pass some additional data to a multibranch pipeline build while notifying a multibranch pipeline job about SCM changes.
Due to this the plugin just listens for GitLab Push Hooks for multibranch pipeline jobs; Merge Request hooks are ignored.

1. Click **Add source**
2. Select **Git**
3. Enter your *Repository URL* (e.g.: ``git@your.gitlab.server:group/repo_name.git``)
4. Unlike other job types, there is no 'Trigger' setting required for a Multibranch job configuration; just create a webhook in GitLab for push requests which points to ``http://JENKINS_URL/project/PROJECT_NAME``

Example `Jenkinsfile` for multibranch pipeline jobs
```
// Reference the GitLab connection name from your Jenkins Global configuration (http://JENKINS_URL/configure, GitLab section)
properties([gitLabConnection('<your-gitlab-connection-name')])

node {
    stage "checkout"
    checkout scm

    stage "build"
    gitlabCommitStatus("build") {
        // your build steps
    }

    stage "test"
    gitlabCommitStatus("test") {
        // your test steps
    }
}
```

### Freestyle and Pipeline jobs
1. In the *Build Triggers* section:
    * Select *Build when a change is pushed to GitLab*
    * Make a note of the *GitLab CI Service URL* appearing on the same line with *Build when a change is
      pushed to GitLab*.  You will later use this URL to define a GitLab web hook.
    * Use the check boxes to trigger builds on *Push Events* and/or *Created Merge Request Events* and/or *Accepted Merge Request Events* and/or *Closed Merge Request Events*
    * Optionally use *Rebuild open Merge Requests* to enable re-building open merge requests after a
      push to the source branch
    * If you selected *Rebuild open Merge Requests* other than *None*, check *Comments*, and specify the
      *Comment for triggering a build*.  A new build will be triggered when this phrase appears in a
      commit comment.  In addition to a literal phrase, you can also specify a Java regular expression.
    * You can use *Build on successful pipeline events* to trigger on a successful pipeline run in Gitlab. Note that 
      this build trigger will only trigger a build if the commit is not already built and does not set the Gitlab status.
      Otherwise you might end up in a loop.
2. Configure any other pre build, build or post build actions as necessary
3. Click *Save* to preserve your changes in Jenkins.

### Declarative Pipeline Syntax

The plugin supports the new [declarative pipeline syntax](https://github.com/jenkinsci/pipeline-model-definition-plugin/wiki/Syntax-Reference). The example below configures the GitLab connection and triggers the job on a push to GitLab. It also sets the Gitlab commit status as the status of the build.

```
pipeline {
    agent any
    post {
      failure {
        updateGitlabCommitStatus name: 'build', state: 'failed'
      }
      success {
        updateGitlabCommitStatus name: 'build', state: 'success'
      }
    }
    options {
      gitLabConnection('<your-gitlab-connection-name')
    }
    triggers {
        gitlab(triggerOnPush: true, triggerOnMergeRequest: true, branchFilterType: 'All')
    }
    stages {
      stage("build") {
        steps {
          echo "hello world"
        }
      }
    }
   [...]
}
```

If you make use of the "Merge When Pipeline Succeeds" option for Merge Requests in GitLab, and your Declarative Pipeline jobs have more than one stage, you will need to define those stages in an `options` block. Otherwise, when and if the first stage passes, GitLab will merge the change. For example, if you have three stages named build, test, and deploy:

```
    options {
      gitLabConnection('<your-gitlab-connection-name')
      gitlabBuilds(builds: ['build', 'test', 'deploy'])
    }
```

If you want to configure any of the optional job triggers that the plugin supports in a Declarative build, use a `triggers` block. The full list of configurable trigger options is as follows:

```
triggers {
    gitlab(
      triggerOnPush: false,
      triggerOnMergeRequest: true, triggerOpenMergeRequestOnPush: "never",
      triggerOnNoteRequest: true,
      noteRegex: "Jenkins please retry a build",
      skipWorkInProgressMergeRequest: true,
      ciSkip: false,
      setBuildDescription: true,
      addNoteOnMergeRequest: true,
      addCiMessage: true,
      addVoteOnMergeRequest: true,
      acceptMergeRequestOnSuccess: false,
      branchFilterType: "NameBasedFilter",
      includeBranchesSpec: "release/qat",
      excludeBranchesSpec: "",
      secretToken: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCDEF")
}
```

### Matrix/Multi-configuration jobs

This plugin can be used on Matrix/Multi-configuration jobs together with the [Flexible Publish](https://plugins.jenkins.io/flexible-publish) plugin which allows to run publishers after all axis jobs are done.

To use GitLab with Flexible Publish, configure the *Post-build Actions* as follows:

1. Add a *Flexible publish* action
2. In the *Flexible publish* section:
      1. *Add conditional action*
      2. In the *Conditional action* section:
          1. Set *Run?* to *Never*
          2. Select *Condition for Matrix Aggregation*
          3. Set *Run on Parent?* to *Always*
          4. Add GitLab actions as required

## Gitlab Configuration

GitLab 8.1 has implemented a commit status API, you need an extra post-build step to support commit status.

* In GitLab go to your repository's project *Settings*
    * Click on *Web Hooks*
    * Earlier in Jenkins, you made a note of the *GitLab CI Service URL*, which is of the form
      ``http://JENKINS_URL/project/JENKINS_PROJECT_NAME``.  Specify this as the web hook *URL*.
      Note that ``JENKINS_PROJECT_NAME`` is the name of the Jenkins project you want to trigger, including
      [Jenkins folders](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/CloudBees+Folders+Plugin).
    * Select *Merge Request Events* and *Push Events*
    * Click *Add Webhook*
    * Click *Test Hook* to test your new web hook.  You should see two results:
        * GitLab should display "Hook successfully executed"
        * Jenkins project ``JENKINS_PROJECT_NAME`` should start

* Add a post-build step *Publish build status to GitLab commit (GitLab 8.1+ required)* to the job.
* For pipeline jobs surround your build step with the gitlabCommitStatus step like this:

    ```
    node() {
        stage 'Checkout'
        checkout <your-scm-config>

        gitlabCommitStatus {
           <script that builds, tests, etc. your project>
        }
    }
    ```
* For pipeline jobs there is also the updateGitlabCommitStatus step to use a custom state for updating the commit status:

    ```
    node() {
        stage 'Checkout'
        checkout <your-scm-config>

        updateGitlabCommitStatus name: 'build', state: 'pending'
    }
    ```
* To mark several build stages as pending in GitLab you can use the gitlabBuilds step:

    ```
    node() {
        stage 'Checkout'
        checkout <your-scm-config>

        gitlabBuilds(builds: ["build", "test"]) {
            stage "build"
            gitlabCommitStatus("build") {
                // your build steps
            }

            stage "test"
            gitlabCommitStatus("test") {
                // your test steps
            }
        }
    }
    ```
* Configure access to GitLab as described above in ["Configure access to GitLab"](#configuring-access-to-gitlab) (the account needs at least developer permissions to post commit statuses)

# Branch filtering

Triggers may be filtered based on the branch name, i.e. the build will only be allowed for selected branches. On the project configuration page, when you configure the GitLab trigger, you can choose 'Filter branches by name' or 'Filter branches by regex.' Filter by name takes comma-separated lists of branch names to include and/or exclude from triggering a build. Filter by regex takes a Java regular expression to include and/or exclude.

**Note:** This functionality requires accessing the GitLab server (see [above](#configuring-access-to-gitlab)) and for the time being also a git repository url already saved in the project configuration. In other words, when creating a new project, the configuration needs to be saved *once* before being able to select the allowed branches. For Workflow/Pipeline jobs, the configuration must be saved *and* the job must be run once before the list is populated. For existing projects, all branches are allowed to push by default.

# Build Tags

In order to build when a new tag is pushed:
* In the ``GitLab server`` add ``Tag push events`` to the ``Web Hook``
* In the ``Jenkins`` under the ``Source Code Management`` section:
    * select ``Advance...`` and add  ``+refs/tags/*:refs/remotes/origin/tags/*`` as ``Refspec``
    * you can also use ``Branch Specifier`` to specify which tag need to be built (exampple ``refs/tags/${TAGNAME}``)

# Send message on complete of a build

1. In the *Post build steps* section:
    1. Click *Add post build step*
    2. Click *Add note with build status on GitLab merge requests* and save build settings (You enabled autoumatically sending default message on result of a build)

2. If you want make custom message on result of a build:
    1. In *Add note with build status on GitLab merge requests* section click to *Custom message on success/failure/abort*
    2. Write text of message, you can use Environment variables

# Parameterized builds

You can trigger a job a manually by clicking ``This build is parameterized`` and adding the any of the relevant build parameters.
These include:

* gitlabBranch
* gitlabSourceBranch
* gitlabActionType
* gitlabUserName
* gitlabUserEmail
* gitlabSourceRepoHomepage
* gitlabSourceRepoName
* gitlabSourceNamespace
* gitlabSourceRepoURL
* gitlabSourceRepoSshUrl
* gitlabSourceRepoHttpUrl
* gitlabMergeRequestTitle
* gitlabMergeRequestDescription
* gitlabMergeRequestId
* gitlabMergeRequestIid
* gitlabMergeRequestState
* gitlabMergedByUser
* gitlabMergeRequestAssignee
* gitlabMergeRequestLastCommit
* gitlabMergeRequestTargetProjectId
* gitlabTargetBranch
* gitlabTargetRepoName
* gitlabTargetNamespace
* gitlabTargetRepoSshUrl
* gitlabTargetRepoHttpUrl
* gitlabBefore
* gitlabAfter
* gitlabTriggerPhrase

# Contributing to the Plugin

Plugin source code is hosted on [Github](https://github.com/jenkinsci/gitlab-plugin).
New feature proposals and bug fix proposals should be submitted as
[Github pull requests](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request).
Fork the repository on Github, prepare your change on your forked
copy, and submit a pull request (see [here](https://github.com/jenkinsci/gitlab-plugin/pulls) for open pull requests). Your pull request will be evaluated by the [Cloudbees Jenkins job](https://jenkins.ci.cloudbees.com/job/plugins/job/gitlab-plugin/).

If you are adding new features please make sure that they support the Jenkins Workflow Plugin.
See [here](https://github.com/jenkinsci/workflow-plugin/blob/master/COMPATIBILITY.md) for some information.

Before submitting your change make sure that:
* your changes work with the oldest and latest supported GitLab version
* new features are provided with tests
* refactored code is provided with regression tests
* the code formatting follows the plugin standard
* imports are organised
* you updated the help docs
* you updated the README
* you have used findbugs to see if you haven't introduced any new warnings.

# Testing With Docker

See https://github.com/jenkinsci/gitlab-plugin/tree/master/src/docker/README.md

# Release Workflow

To perform a full plugin release, maintainers can run ``mvn release:prepare release:perform`` To release a snapshot, e.g. with a bug fix for users to test, just run ``mvn deploy``

Commit message:

Improve doc to setup webhook with folders
Add a comment to improve accuracy when setup a webhook with Jenkins Multibranch Pipeline/Workflow job inside folders.

README.md, after:

# Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [User support](#user-support)
- [Known bugs/issues](#known-bugsissues)
- [Supported GitLab versions](#supported-gitlab-versions)
- [Configuring access to GitLab](#configuring-access-to-gitlab)
    - [Jenkins Job Configuration](#jenkins-job-configuration)
    - [Gitlab Configuration (>= 8.1)](#gitlab-configuration)
- [Branch filtering](#branch-filtering)
- [Build Tags](#build-tags)
- [Parameterized builds](#parameterized-builds)
- [Contributing to the Plugin](#contributing-to-the-plugin)
- [Testing With Docker](#testing-with-docker)
- [Release Workflow](#release-workflow)

# Introduction

This plugin allows GitLab to trigger builds in Jenkins after code is pushed and/or after a merge request is created and/or after an existing merge request was merged/closed, and report build status back to GitLab.

# User support

If you have a problem or question about using the plugin, please make sure you are using the latest version. Then create an issue in the GitHub project if necessary. New issues should include the following:
* GitLab plugin version (e.g. 1.2.0)
* GitLab version (e.g. 8.1.1)
* Jenkins version (e.g. 1.651.1)
* Relevant log output from the plugin (see below for instructions on capturing this)

Version 1.2.0 of the plugin introduced improved logging for debugging purposes. To enable it:

1. Go to Jenkins -> Manage Jenkins -> System Log
2. Add new log recorder
3. Enter 'Gitlab plugin' or whatever you want for the name
4. On the next page, enter 'com.dabsquared.gitlabjenkins' for Logger, set log level to FINEST, and save
5. Then click on your Gitlab plugin log, click 'Clear this log' if necessary, and then use GitLab to trigger some actions
6. Refresh the log page and you should see output

You can also try chatting with us in the #gitlab-plugin channel on the Freenode IRC network.

# Known bugs/issues

This is not an exhaustive list of issues, but rather a place for us to note significant bugs that may impact your use of the plugin in certain circumstances. For most things, please search the [Issues](https://github.com/jenkinsci/gitlab-plugin/issues) section and open a new one if you don't find anything.
* [#272](https://github.com/jenkinsci/gitlab-plugin/issues/272) - Plugin version 1.2.0+ does not work with GitLab Enterprise Edition < 8.8.3. Subsequent versions work fine.
* Jenkins versions 1.651.2 and 2.3 removed the ability of plugins to set arbitrary job parameters that are not specifically defined in each job's configuration. This was an important security update, but it has broken compatibility with some plugins, including ours. See [here](https://jenkins.io/blog/2016/05/11/security-update/) for more information and workarounds if you are finding parameters unset or empty that you expect to have values.
* [#473](https://github.com/jenkinsci/gitlab-plugin/issues/473) - When upgrading from plugin versions older than 1.2.0, you must upgrade to that version first, and then to the latest version. Otherwise, you will get a NullPointerException in com.cloudbees.plugins.credentials.matchers.IdMatcher after you upgrade. See the linked issue for specific instructions.
* [#608](https://github.com/jenkinsci/gitlab-plugin/issues/608) - GitLab 9.5.0 - 9.5.4 has a bug that causes the "Test Webhook" function to fail when it sends a test to Jenkins. This was fixed in 9.5.5.

# Supported GitLab versions

* GitLab versions 8.1.x and newer (both CE and EE editions) are supported via the GitLab [commit status API](https://docs.gitlab.com/ce/api/commits.html#commit-status) which supports with external CI services like Jenkins
* Versions older than 8.1.x may work but are no longer officially supported

# Configuring access to GitLab

Optionally, the plugin communicates with the GitLab server in order to fetch additional information. At this moment, this information is limited to fetching the source project of a Merge Request, in order to support merging from forked repositories.

To enable this functionality, a user should be set up on GitLab, with GitLab 'Developer' permissions, to access the repository. You will need to give this user access to each repo you want Jenkins to be able to clone. Log in to GitLab as that user, go to its profile, and copy its secret API key. On the Global Configuration page in Jenkins, supply the GitLab host URL, e.g. ``http://your.gitlab.server.`` Click the 'Add' button to add a credential, choose 'GitLab API token' as the kind of credential, and paste your GitLab user's API key into the 'API token' field. Testing the connection should succeed.

## Jenkins Job Configuration
### Git configuration for Freestyle jobs
1. In the *Source Code Management* section:
    1. Click *Git*
    2. Enter your *Repository URL*, such as ``git@your.gitlab.server:gitlab_group/gitlab_project.git``
       * In the *Advanced* settings, set *Name* to ``origin`` and *Refspec* to
        ``+refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/origin/* +refs/merge-requests/*/head:refs/remotes/origin/merge-requests/*``
    3. In order to merge from forked repositories:  <br/>**Note:** this requires [configuring communication to the GitLab server](#configuring-access-to-gitlab)
       * Click *Add Repository* to specify the merge request source repository.  Then specify:
         * *URL*: ``${gitlabSourceRepoURL}``
         * In the *Advanced* settings, set *Name* to ``${gitlabSourceRepoName}``.  Leave *Refspec* blank.
    4. In *Branch Specifier* enter:
       * For single-repository workflows: ``origin/${gitlabSourceBranch}``
       * For forked repository workflows: ``merge-requests/${gitlabMergeRequestIid}``
    5. In *Additional Behaviours*:
        * Click the *Add* drop-down button
        * Select *Merge before build* from the drop-down
        * Set *Name of repository* to ``origin``
        * Set *Branch to merge* as ``${gitlabTargetBranch}``

**Note:** Since version **1.2.0** the *gitlab-plugin* sets the gitlab hook values through *environment variables* instead of *build parameters*. To set default values, consult [EnvInject Plugin](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/EnvInject+Plugin).

### Git configuration for Pipeline/Workflow jobs
**Incompatibility note:** When upgrading to version 1.2.1 or later of the plugin, if you are using Pipeline jobs you will need to manually reconfigure your Pipeline scripts. In older versions the plugin set global Groovy variables that could be accessed as e.g. ${gitlabSourceBranch}. After version 1.2.1, these variables are only accessible in the env[] map. E.g. ${env.gitlabSourceBranch}.

* A Jenkins Pipeline bug will prevent the Git clone from working when you use a Pipeline script from SCM. It works if you use the Jenkins job config UI to edit the script. There is a workaround mentioned here: https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/browse/JENKINS-33719

* Use the Snippet generator, General SCM step, to generate sample Groovy code for the git checkout/merge etc.
* Example that performs merge before build:
```
checkout changelog: true, poll: true, scm: [
    $class: 'GitSCM',
    branches: [[name: "origin/${env.gitlabSourceBranch}"]],
    doGenerateSubmoduleConfigurations: false,
    extensions: [[$class: 'PreBuildMerge', options: [fastForwardMode: 'FF', mergeRemote: 'origin', mergeStrategy: 'default', mergeTarget: "${env.gitlabTargetBranch}"]]],
    submoduleCfg: [],
    userRemoteConfigs: [[name: 'origin', url: 'git@gitlab.example.com:foo/testrepo.git']]
    ]
```

### Git configuration for Multibranch Pipeline/Workflow jobs
**Note:** none of the GitLab environment variables are available for multibranch pipeline jobs as there is no way to pass some additional data to a multibranch pipeline build while notifying a multibranch pipeline job about SCM changes.
Due to this the plugin just listens for GitLab Push Hooks for multibranch pipeline jobs; Merge Request hooks are ignored.

1. Click **Add source**
2. Select **Git**
3. Enter your *Repository URL* (e.g.: ``git@your.gitlab.server:group/repo_name.git``)
4. Unlike other job types, there is no 'Trigger' setting required for a Multibranch job configuration; just create a webhook in GitLab for push requests which points to ``http://JENKINS_URL/project/PROJECT_NAME`` or ``http://JENKINS_URL/project/FOLDER/PROJECT_NAME`` if the project in inside a folder in Jenkins.

Example `Jenkinsfile` for multibranch pipeline jobs
```
// Reference the GitLab connection name from your Jenkins Global configuration (http://JENKINS_URL/configure, GitLab section)
properties([gitLabConnection('<your-gitlab-connection-name')])

node {
    stage "checkout"
    checkout scm

    stage "build"
    gitlabCommitStatus("build") {
        // your build steps
    }

    stage "test"
    gitlabCommitStatus("test") {
        // your test steps
    }
}
```

### Freestyle and Pipeline jobs
1. In the *Build Triggers* section:
    * Select *Build when a change is pushed to GitLab*
    * Make a note of the *GitLab CI Service URL* appearing on the same line with *Build when a change is
      pushed to GitLab*.  You will later use this URL to define a GitLab web hook.
    * Use the check boxes to trigger builds on *Push Events* and/or *Created Merge Request Events* and/or *Accepted Merge Request Events* and/or *Closed Merge Request Events*
    * Optionally use *Rebuild open Merge Requests* to enable re-building open merge requests after a
      push to the source branch
    * If you selected *Rebuild open Merge Requests* other than *None*, check *Comments*, and specify the
      *Comment for triggering a build*.  A new build will be triggered when this phrase appears in a
      commit comment.  In addition to a literal phrase, you can also specify a Java regular expression.
    * You can use *Build on successful pipeline events* to trigger on a successful pipeline run in Gitlab. Note that 
      this build trigger will only trigger a build if the commit is not already built and does not set the Gitlab status.
      Otherwise you might end up in a loop.
2. Configure any other pre build, build or post build actions as necessary
3. Click *Save* to preserve your changes in Jenkins.

### Declarative Pipeline Syntax

The plugin supports the new [declarative pipeline syntax](https://github.com/jenkinsci/pipeline-model-definition-plugin/wiki/Syntax-Reference). The example below configures the GitLab connection and triggers the job on a push to GitLab. It also sets the Gitlab commit status as the status of the build.

```
pipeline {
    agent any
    post {
      failure {
        updateGitlabCommitStatus name: 'build', state: 'failed'
      }
      success {
        updateGitlabCommitStatus name: 'build', state: 'success'
      }
    }
    options {
      gitLabConnection('<your-gitlab-connection-name')
    }
    triggers {
        gitlab(triggerOnPush: true, triggerOnMergeRequest: true, branchFilterType: 'All')
    }
    stages {
      stage("build") {
        steps {
          echo "hello world"
        }
      }
    }
   [...]
}
```

If you make use of the "Merge When Pipeline Succeeds" option for Merge Requests in GitLab, and your Declarative Pipeline jobs have more than one stage, you will need to define those stages in an `options` block. Otherwise, when and if the first stage passes, GitLab will merge the change. For example, if you have three stages named build, test, and deploy:

```
    options {
      gitLabConnection('<your-gitlab-connection-name')
      gitlabBuilds(builds: ['build', 'test', 'deploy'])
    }
```

If you want to configure any of the optional job triggers that the plugin supports in a Declarative build, use a `triggers` block. The full list of configurable trigger options is as follows:

```
triggers {
    gitlab(
      triggerOnPush: false,
      triggerOnMergeRequest: true, triggerOpenMergeRequestOnPush: "never",
      triggerOnNoteRequest: true,
      noteRegex: "Jenkins please retry a build",
      skipWorkInProgressMergeRequest: true,
      ciSkip: false,
      setBuildDescription: true,
      addNoteOnMergeRequest: true,
      addCiMessage: true,
      addVoteOnMergeRequest: true,
      acceptMergeRequestOnSuccess: false,
      branchFilterType: "NameBasedFilter",
      includeBranchesSpec: "release/qat",
      excludeBranchesSpec: "",
      secretToken: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCDEF")
}
```

### Matrix/Multi-configuration jobs

This plugin can be used on Matrix/Multi-configuration jobs together with the [Flexible Publish](https://plugins.jenkins.io/flexible-publish) plugin which allows to run publishers after all axis jobs are done.

To use GitLab with Flexible Publish, configure the *Post-build Actions* as follows:

1. Add a *Flexible publish* action
2. In the *Flexible publish* section:
      1. *Add conditional action*
      2. In the *Conditional action* section:
          1. Set *Run?* to *Never*
          2. Select *Condition for Matrix Aggregation*
          3. Set *Run on Parent?* to *Always*
          4. Add GitLab actions as required

## Gitlab Configuration

GitLab 8.1 has implemented a commit status API, you need an extra post-build step to support commit status.

* In GitLab go to your repository's project *Settings*
    * Click on *Web Hooks*
    * Earlier in Jenkins, you made a note of the *GitLab CI Service URL*, which is of the form
      ``http://JENKINS_URL/project/JENKINS_PROJECT_NAME``.  Specify this as the web hook *URL*.
      Note that ``JENKINS_PROJECT_NAME`` is the name of the Jenkins project you want to trigger, including
      [Jenkins folders](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/CloudBees+Folders+Plugin).
    * Select *Merge Request Events* and *Push Events*
    * Click *Add Webhook*
    * Click *Test Hook* to test your new web hook.  You should see two results:
        * GitLab should display "Hook successfully executed"
        * Jenkins project ``JENKINS_PROJECT_NAME`` should start

* Add a post-build step *Publish build status to GitLab commit (GitLab 8.1+ required)* to the job.
* For pipeline jobs surround your build step with the gitlabCommitStatus step like this:

    ```
    node() {
        stage 'Checkout'
        checkout <your-scm-config>

        gitlabCommitStatus {
           <script that builds, tests, etc. your project>
        }
    }
    ```
* For pipeline jobs there is also the updateGitlabCommitStatus step to use a custom state for updating the commit status:

    ```
    node() {
        stage 'Checkout'
        checkout <your-scm-config>

        updateGitlabCommitStatus name: 'build', state: 'pending'
    }
    ```
* To mark several build stages as pending in GitLab you can use the gitlabBuilds step:

    ```
    node() {
        stage 'Checkout'
        checkout <your-scm-config>

        gitlabBuilds(builds: ["build", "test"]) {
            stage "build"
            gitlabCommitStatus("build") {
                // your build steps
            }

            stage "test"
            gitlabCommitStatus("test") {
                // your test steps
            }
        }
    }
    ```
* Configure access to GitLab as described above in ["Configure access to GitLab"](#configuring-access-to-gitlab) (the account needs at least developer permissions to post commit statuses)

# Branch filtering

Triggers may be filtered based on the branch name, i.e. the build will only be allowed for selected branches. On the project configuration page, when you configure the GitLab trigger, you can choose 'Filter branches by name' or 'Filter branches by regex.' Filter by name takes comma-separated lists of branch names to include and/or exclude from triggering a build. Filter by regex takes a Java regular expression to include and/or exclude.

**Note:** This functionality requires accessing the GitLab server (see [above](#configuring-access-to-gitlab)) and for the time being also a git repository url already saved in the project configuration. In other words, when creating a new project, the configuration needs to be saved *once* before being able to select the allowed branches. For Workflow/Pipeline jobs, the configuration must be saved *and* the job must be run once before the list is populated. For existing projects, all branches are allowed to push by default.

# Build Tags

In order to build when a new tag is pushed:
* In the ``GitLab server`` add ``Tag push events`` to the ``Web Hook``
* In the ``Jenkins`` under the ``Source Code Management`` section:
    * select ``Advance...`` and add  ``+refs/tags/*:refs/remotes/origin/tags/*`` as ``Refspec``
    * you can also use ``Branch Specifier`` to specify which tag need to be built (exampple ``refs/tags/${TAGNAME}``)

# Send message on complete of a build

1. In the *Post build steps* section:
    1. Click *Add post build step*
    2. Click *Add note with build status on GitLab merge requests* and save build settings (You enabled autoumatically sending default message on result of a build)

2. If you want make custom message on result of a build:
    1. In *Add note with build status on GitLab merge requests* section click to *Custom message on success/failure/abort*
    2. Write text of message, you can use Environment variables

# Parameterized builds

You can trigger a job a manually by clicking ``This build is parameterized`` and adding the any of the relevant build parameters.
These include:

* gitlabBranch
* gitlabSourceBranch
* gitlabActionType
* gitlabUserName
* gitlabUserEmail
* gitlabSourceRepoHomepage
* gitlabSourceRepoName
* gitlabSourceNamespace
* gitlabSourceRepoURL
* gitlabSourceRepoSshUrl
* gitlabSourceRepoHttpUrl
* gitlabMergeRequestTitle
* gitlabMergeRequestDescription
* gitlabMergeRequestId
* gitlabMergeRequestIid
* gitlabMergeRequestState
* gitlabMergedByUser
* gitlabMergeRequestAssignee
* gitlabMergeRequestLastCommit
* gitlabMergeRequestTargetProjectId
* gitlabTargetBranch
* gitlabTargetRepoName
* gitlabTargetNamespace
* gitlabTargetRepoSshUrl
* gitlabTargetRepoHttpUrl
* gitlabBefore
* gitlabAfter
* gitlabTriggerPhrase

# Contributing to the Plugin

Plugin source code is hosted on [Github](https://github.com/jenkinsci/gitlab-plugin).
New feature proposals and bug fix proposals should be submitted as
[Github pull requests](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request).
Fork the repository on Github, prepare your change on your forked
copy, and submit a pull request (see [here](https://github.com/jenkinsci/gitlab-plugin/pulls) for open pull requests). Your pull request will be evaluated by the [Cloudbees Jenkins job](https://jenkins.ci.cloudbees.com/job/plugins/job/gitlab-plugin/).

If you are adding new features please make sure that they support the Jenkins Workflow Plugin.
See [here](https://github.com/jenkinsci/workflow-plugin/blob/master/COMPATIBILITY.md) for some information.

Before submitting your change make sure that:
* your changes work with the oldest and latest supported GitLab version
* new features are provided with tests
* refactored code is provided with regression tests
* the code formatting follows the plugin standard
* imports are organised
* you updated the help docs
* you updated the README
* you have used findbugs to see if you haven't introduced any new warnings.

# Testing With Docker

See https://github.com/jenkinsci/gitlab-plugin/tree/master/src/docker/README.md

# Release Workflow

To perform a full plugin release, maintainers can run ``mvn release:prepare release:perform`` To release a snapshot, e.g. with a bug fix for users to test, just run ``mvn deploy``
